---
layout: post
title: enfilade
date: 2018-04-27
categories: entry
---
## The Word
Enfilade

## Where encountered?
I encountered this word while reading the novel "Infinite Jest."

## Meaning
This word can be either a noun meaning 
> 1. A suite of apartments, whose doorways are placed opposite to each other.
> 2. A 'fire' from artillery or musketry which sweeps a line of works or men from one end to the other
or a verbal form similarly meaning
> 1. To set (trees) so as to form an enfilade.
> 2. To subject to an enfilade; to 'rake' or be in a position to 'rake' (a line of fortification, a line of 
> troops, a road, etc.) from end to end with a fire in the direction of its length.


## Etymology
This word is of French origin, derived from the French *enfilade.* The term was coined around 1750, which is 
also when it peaked in usage. The other largest peaks were in 1925 and 1860.


## Morphology and reflection
This word is derived from the French (and English) prefix *en-* meaning 'in,' and stem *fil* meaning 'thread.'
I found it interesting that this word was coined by the English to describe battle positions. Its meaning also
parallels the analogy for one view of morphology that we considered in class, which treated affixes like beads 
on a thread. I also found it interesting that this word has a counterpart *defilade,* which, by changing the 
prefix, instead refers to when obstacles or terrain are used to prevent an enfilade position.


## Source
> http://www.oed.com/view/Entry/62141#eid5627454

> https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Enfilade_and_defilade
